README.md, before:

# R.swift [![Version](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/v/R.swift.svg?style=flat)](https://cocoapods.org/pods/R.swift) [![License](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/l/R.swift.svg?style=flat)](blob/master/License) ![Platform](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/p/R.swift.svg?style=flat)

_Get strong typed, autocompleted resources like images, fonts and segues in Swift projects_

## Why use this?

It makes your code that uses resources:
- **Fully typed**, less casting and guessing what a method will return
- **Compile time checked**, no more incorrect strings that make your app crash at runtime
- **Autocompleted**, never have to guess that image name again

Currently you type:
```swift
let icon = UIImage(named: "settings-icon")
let font = UIFont(name: "San Francisco", size: 42)
let color = UIColor(named: "indictator highlight")
let viewController = CustomViewController(nibName: "CustomView", bundle: nil)
let string = String(format: NSLocalizedString("welcome.withName", comment: ""), locale: NSLocale.current, "Arthur Dent")
```

With R.swift it becomes:
```swift
let icon = R.image.settingsIcon()
let font = R.font.sanFrancisco(size: 42)
let color = R.color.indicatorHighlight()
let viewController = CustomViewController(nib: R.nib.customView)
let string = R.string.localizable.welcomeWithName("Arthur Dent")
```

Check out [more examples](Documentation/Examples.md) or hear about [how Fabric.app uses R.swift](https://news.realm.io/news/slug-javi-soto-building-fabric-in-swift/#rswift-2956)!

## Demo

**Autocompleted images:**

![Autocompleted images](Documentation/Images/DemoUseImage.gif)

**Compiletime checked images:**

![Compiletime checked images](Documentation/Images/DemoRenameImage.gif)

This is only the beginning, check out [more examples](Documentation/Examples.md)!

## CocoaHeadsNL presentation

Mathijs Kadijk presented R.swift at the September 2016 CocoaHeadsNL meetup.
Talking about the ideas behind R.swift and demonstrating how to move from plain stringly-typed iOS code to statically typed code.

<a href="https://vimeo.com/185173151"><img src="https://i.vimeocdn.com/video/594835658.jpg?mw=1920&mh=1080&q=70" width="560" alt="R.swift presentation at CocoaHeadsNL"></a>

## Features

After installing R.swift into your project you can use the `R`-struct to access resources. If the struct is outdated just build and R.swift will correct any missing/changed/added resources.

R.swift currently supports these types of resources:
- [Images](Documentation/Examples.md#images)
- [Fonts](Documentation/Examples.md#custom-fonts)
- [Resource files](Documentation/Examples.md#resource-files)
- [Colors](Documentation/Examples.md#colors)
- [Localized strings](Documentation/Examples.md#localized-strings)
- [Storyboards](Documentation/Examples.md#storyboards)
- [Segues](Documentation/Examples.md#segues)
- [Nibs](Documentation/Examples.md#nibs)
- [Reusable cells](Documentation/Examples.md#reusable-table-view-cells)

Runtime validation with [`R.validate()`](Documentation/Examples.md#runtime-validation):
- If all images used in storyboards and nibs are available
- If all named colors used in storyboards and nibs are available
- If all view controllers with storyboard identifiers can be loaded
- If all custom fonts can be loaded

## Q&A

- [Why was R.swift created?](Documentation/QandA.md#why-was-rswift-created)
- [Why should I choose R.swift over alternative X or Y?](Documentation/QandA.md#why-should-i-choose-rswift-over-alternative-x-or-y)
- [What are the requirements to run R.swift?](Documentation/QandA.md#what-are-the-requirements-to-run-rswift)
- [How to use methods with a `Void` argument?](Documentation/QandA.md#how-to-use-methods-with-a-void-argument)
- [How to fix missing imports in the generated file?](Documentation/QandA.md#how-to-fix-missing-imports-in-the-generated-file)
- [How to use classes with the same name as their module?](Documentation/QandA.md#how-to-use-classes-with-the-same-name-as-their-module)
- [Can I ignore resources?](Documentation/Ignoring.md)
- [Can I use R.swift in a library?](Documentation/QandA.md#can-i-use-rswift-in-a-library)
- [How does R.swift work?](Documentation/QandA.md#how-does-rswift-work)
- [How to upgrade to a new major version?](Documentation/Migration.md)

## Installation

[CocoaPods](http://cocoapods.org) is the recommended way of installation, as this avoids including any binary files into your project.

_Note on Carthage: R.swift is a tool used in a build step, it is not a dynamic library. Therefore [it is not possible](https://github.com/mac-cain13/R.swift/issues/42) to install it with Carthage._

> ### ⚠️ Change between R.swift 3 and R.swift 4
> Be aware:  
> For R.swift 3.x and below, the `rswift` executable should be called with only one argument: `rswift $SRCROOT`  
> For R.swift 4, the `rswift` executable should be called with two arguments: `rswift generate $SRCROOT`

### CocoaPods (recommended)

_There is also a [short video](https://vimeo.com/122888912) of this instruction._

1. Add `pod 'R.swift'` to your [Podfile](http://cocoapods.org/#get_started) and run `pod install`
2. In Xcode: Click on your project in the file list, choose your target under `TARGETS`, click the `Build Phases` tab and add a `New Run Script Phase` by clicking the little plus icon in the top left
3. Drag the new `Run Script` phase **above** the `Compile Sources` phase and **below** `Check Pods Manifest.lock`, expand it and paste the following script:  
   ```
   "$PODS_ROOT/R.swift/rswift" generate "$SRCROOT"
   ```
4. Build your project, in Finder you will now see a `R.generated.swift` in the `$SRCROOT`-folder, drag the `R.generated.swift` files into your project and **uncheck** `Copy items if needed`

_Tip:_ Add the `*.generated.swift` pattern to your `.gitignore` file to prevent unnecessary conflicts.

### Manually

0. Add the [R.swift.Library](https://github.com/mac-cain13/R.swift.Library#Installation) to your project
1. [Download](https://github.com/mac-cain13/R.swift/releases) a R.swift release, unzip it and put it into your source root directory
2. In Xcode: Click on your project in the file list, choose your target under `TARGETS`, click the `Build Phases` tab and add a `New Run Script Phase` by clicking the little plus icon in the top left
3. Drag the new `Run Script` phase **above** the `Compile Sources` phase, expand it and paste the following script:  
   ```
   "$SRCROOT/rswift" generate "$SRCROOT"
   ```
4. Build your project, in Finder you will now see a `R.generated.swift` in the `$SRCROOT`-folder, drag the `R.generated.swift` files into your project and **uncheck** `Copy items if needed`

_Tip:_ Add the `*.generated.swift` pattern to your `.gitignore` file to prevent unnecessary conflicts.

### Building from source

R.swift is built using [Swift Package Manager (SPM)](https://github.com/apple/swift-package-manager).

1. Check out the code
2. Run `swift build -c release -Xswiftc -static-stdlib` from the root directory
3. Follow the manual installation steps with the binary you now have

For developing on R.swift in Xcode, run `swift package generate-xcodeproj --xcconfig-overrides RswiftConfig.xcconfig`.

## Contribute

We'll love contributions, read the [contribute docs](Documentation/Contribute.md) for info on how to report issues, submit ideas and submit pull requests!

## License

[R.swift](https://github.com/mac-cain13/R.swift) and [R.swift.Library](https://github.com/mac-cain13/R.swift.Library) are created by [Mathijs Kadijk](https://github.com/mac-cain13) and released under a [MIT License](License).

Special thanks to [Tom Lokhorst](https://github.com/tomlokhorst) for his major contributions and help maintaining this project.

Commit message:

Add warning to README about Xcode 10

README.md, after:

# R.swift [![Version](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/v/R.swift.svg?style=flat)](https://cocoapods.org/pods/R.swift) [![License](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/l/R.swift.svg?style=flat)](blob/master/License) ![Platform](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/p/R.swift.svg?style=flat)

_Get strong typed, autocompleted resources like images, fonts and segues in Swift projects_

---

### ⚠️ R.swift and Xcode 10 / Swift 4.2
The currently latest release of R.swift (5.0.0.alpha.2) supports Swift 4.2, but with a couple of known issues:

When using the new build system and using R.swift as a build step:
 - The initial compile will fail if no output file is configured (https://github.com/mac-cain13/R.swift/issues/438#issuecomment-416982928)
 - However, when setting an output file, subsequent incremental build won't run the R.swift build step

Current known work-arounds for these issues:
 1. Don't configure an output file, but compile twice (difficult on a CI)
 2. Configure an output file, but always do a clean build when an asset has been added (difficult to remember when developing)
 3. Commit the R.generated.swift file to source control, so the CI has the lastest version from development

We're working on finding a better solution to these issues.

---

## Why use this?

It makes your code that uses resources:
- **Fully typed**, less casting and guessing what a method will return
- **Compile time checked**, no more incorrect strings that make your app crash at runtime
- **Autocompleted**, never have to guess that image name again

Currently you type:
```swift
let icon = UIImage(named: "settings-icon")
let font = UIFont(name: "San Francisco", size: 42)
let color = UIColor(named: "indictator highlight")
let viewController = CustomViewController(nibName: "CustomView", bundle: nil)
let string = String(format: NSLocalizedString("welcome.withName", comment: ""), locale: NSLocale.current, "Arthur Dent")
```

With R.swift it becomes:
```swift
let icon = R.image.settingsIcon()
let font = R.font.sanFrancisco(size: 42)
let color = R.color.indicatorHighlight()
let viewController = CustomViewController(nib: R.nib.customView)
let string = R.string.localizable.welcomeWithName("Arthur Dent")
```

Check out [more examples](Documentation/Examples.md) or hear about [how Fabric.app uses R.swift](https://news.realm.io/news/slug-javi-soto-building-fabric-in-swift/#rswift-2956)!

## Demo

**Autocompleted images:**

![Autocompleted images](Documentation/Images/DemoUseImage.gif)

**Compiletime checked images:**

![Compiletime checked images](Documentation/Images/DemoRenameImage.gif)

This is only the beginning, check out [more examples](Documentation/Examples.md)!

## CocoaHeadsNL presentation

Mathijs Kadijk presented R.swift at the September 2016 CocoaHeadsNL meetup.
Talking about the ideas behind R.swift and demonstrating how to move from plain stringly-typed iOS code to statically typed code.

<a href="https://vimeo.com/185173151"><img src="https://i.vimeocdn.com/video/594835658.jpg?mw=1920&mh=1080&q=70" width="560" alt="R.swift presentation at CocoaHeadsNL"></a>

## Features

After installing R.swift into your project you can use the `R`-struct to access resources. If the struct is outdated just build and R.swift will correct any missing/changed/added resources.

R.swift currently supports these types of resources:
- [Images](Documentation/Examples.md#images)
- [Fonts](Documentation/Examples.md#custom-fonts)
- [Resource files](Documentation/Examples.md#resource-files)
- [Colors](Documentation/Examples.md#colors)
- [Localized strings](Documentation/Examples.md#localized-strings)
- [Storyboards](Documentation/Examples.md#storyboards)
- [Segues](Documentation/Examples.md#segues)
- [Nibs](Documentation/Examples.md#nibs)
- [Reusable cells](Documentation/Examples.md#reusable-table-view-cells)

Runtime validation with [`R.validate()`](Documentation/Examples.md#runtime-validation):
- If all images used in storyboards and nibs are available
- If all named colors used in storyboards and nibs are available
- If all view controllers with storyboard identifiers can be loaded
- If all custom fonts can be loaded

## Q&A

- [Why was R.swift created?](Documentation/QandA.md#why-was-rswift-created)
- [Why should I choose R.swift over alternative X or Y?](Documentation/QandA.md#why-should-i-choose-rswift-over-alternative-x-or-y)
- [What are the requirements to run R.swift?](Documentation/QandA.md#what-are-the-requirements-to-run-rswift)
- [How to use methods with a `Void` argument?](Documentation/QandA.md#how-to-use-methods-with-a-void-argument)
- [How to fix missing imports in the generated file?](Documentation/QandA.md#how-to-fix-missing-imports-in-the-generated-file)
- [How to use classes with the same name as their module?](Documentation/QandA.md#how-to-use-classes-with-the-same-name-as-their-module)
- [Can I ignore resources?](Documentation/Ignoring.md)
- [Can I use R.swift in a library?](Documentation/QandA.md#can-i-use-rswift-in-a-library)
- [How does R.swift work?](Documentation/QandA.md#how-does-rswift-work)
- [How to upgrade to a new major version?](Documentation/Migration.md)

## Installation

[CocoaPods](http://cocoapods.org) is the recommended way of installation, as this avoids including any binary files into your project.

_Note on Carthage: R.swift is a tool used in a build step, it is not a dynamic library. Therefore [it is not possible](https://github.com/mac-cain13/R.swift/issues/42) to install it with Carthage._

> ### ⚠️ Change between R.swift 3 and R.swift 4
> Be aware:  
> For R.swift 3.x and below, the `rswift` executable should be called with only one argument: `rswift $SRCROOT`  
> For R.swift 4, the `rswift` executable should be called with two arguments: `rswift generate $SRCROOT`

### CocoaPods (recommended)

_There is also a [short video](https://vimeo.com/122888912) of this instruction._

1. Add `pod 'R.swift'` to your [Podfile](http://cocoapods.org/#get_started) and run `pod install`
2. In Xcode: Click on your project in the file list, choose your target under `TARGETS`, click the `Build Phases` tab and add a `New Run Script Phase` by clicking the little plus icon in the top left
3. Drag the new `Run Script` phase **above** the `Compile Sources` phase and **below** `Check Pods Manifest.lock`, expand it and paste the following script:  
   ```
   "$PODS_ROOT/R.swift/rswift" generate "$SRCROOT"
   ```
4. Build your project, in Finder you will now see a `R.generated.swift` in the `$SRCROOT`-folder, drag the `R.generated.swift` files into your project and **uncheck** `Copy items if needed`

_Tip:_ Add the `*.generated.swift` pattern to your `.gitignore` file to prevent unnecessary conflicts.

### Manually

0. Add the [R.swift.Library](https://github.com/mac-cain13/R.swift.Library#Installation) to your project
1. [Download](https://github.com/mac-cain13/R.swift/releases) a R.swift release, unzip it and put it into your source root directory
2. In Xcode: Click on your project in the file list, choose your target under `TARGETS`, click the `Build Phases` tab and add a `New Run Script Phase` by clicking the little plus icon in the top left
3. Drag the new `Run Script` phase **above** the `Compile Sources` phase, expand it and paste the following script:  
   ```
   "$SRCROOT/rswift" generate "$SRCROOT"
   ```
4. Build your project, in Finder you will now see a `R.generated.swift` in the `$SRCROOT`-folder, drag the `R.generated.swift` files into your project and **uncheck** `Copy items if needed`

_Tip:_ Add the `*.generated.swift` pattern to your `.gitignore` file to prevent unnecessary conflicts.

### Building from source

R.swift is built using [Swift Package Manager (SPM)](https://github.com/apple/swift-package-manager).

1. Check out the code
2. Run `swift build -c release -Xswiftc -static-stdlib` from the root directory
3. Follow the manual installation steps with the binary you now have

For developing on R.swift in Xcode, run `swift package generate-xcodeproj --xcconfig-overrides RswiftConfig.xcconfig`.

## Contribute

We'll love contributions, read the [contribute docs](Documentation/Contribute.md) for info on how to report issues, submit ideas and submit pull requests!

## License

[R.swift](https://github.com/mac-cain13/R.swift) and [R.swift.Library](https://github.com/mac-cain13/R.swift.Library) are created by [Mathijs Kadijk](https://github.com/mac-cain13) and released under a [MIT License](License).

Special thanks to [Tom Lokhorst](https://github.com/tomlokhorst) for his major contributions and help maintaining this project.
