Documentation/Migration.md, before:

# Migration

Pointers for migration between major versions.

## Upgrading to 7.0

[Demo video: Updating from R.swift 6 to Rswift 7](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=icihJ_hin3I)

#### R.string changes
 - Strings are always formatted using `String(format:)`, even strings without arguments, make sure to escape any percentage signs (`%`) with `%%`
 - Use a custom language: `R.string(preferredLanguages: ["fr"]).example.hello()`

#### Running the executable

If you're using Swift Package Manager:
 - Separate R.swift.Library is no longer needed, remove dependency on that package
 - Add SPM dependency on `github.com/mac-cain13/R.swift.git` package
 - Add `RswiftLibrary` to your targets
 - Remove custom Run Script Build Phase that invokes `rswift` binary
 - Under "Run Build Tool Plug-ins" Build Phase, add `RswiftGenerateInternalResources` or `RswiftGeneratePublicResources` ([Screenshot](Images/RunBuildToolPluginsRswift.png))
 - Right-click on your project, and run `RswiftXcodeModifyPackages` to modify your Xcode project so that the build tool plug-in will actually run during builds (this seems to fix a bug in Xcode?) ([Screenshot](Images/RunXcodeModifyPackages.png))

If you're using Mint or manual call `rswift` executable:
 - Separate R.swift.Library is no longer needed, remove dependency on that package
 - Add SPM dependency on `github.com/mac-cain13/R.swift.git` package
 - Add `RswiftLibrary` to your targets

Changes to the commandline tool `rswift` (not relevant when using SPM):
 - Argument `accessLevel` renamed to `access-level`
 - Argument `generateUITestFile` removed, if you need a separate file with just ids, call rswift a second time with `--generators id`
 - Argument `hostingBundle` removed, bundle can be specified in code: `_R(bundle: someBundle)`
 - Arguments removed: `bundleIdentifier`, `productModuleName`, `infoPlistFile`, `codeSignEntitlements`, `builtProductsDir`, `developerDir`, `platformDir`, `sdkRoot`, `sourceRoot`. Use environment variables instead.

#### Library changes

Internal changes in the Rswift support library:
 - Support for `R.nib.XXX.secondView` to `.twentiethView` has been removed, only `.firstView` remains
 - Renamed internal module, update `import Rswift` to `import RswiftResources`
 - Removed protocols: `ColorResourceType`, `FileResourceType`, `FontResourceType`, `IdentifierType`, `ImageResourceType`, `StoryboardViewControllerResourceType`, `StringResourceType`, `Validatable`
 - Added `StringResource1` up to `StringResource9`, for strings with parameters
 - Renamed types:
    * `ReuseIdentifierType` to `ReuseIdentifierContainer`
    * `NibResourceType` to `NibReferenceContainer`
    * `StoryboardResourceType` to `StoryboardReference`
    * `StoryboardResourceWithInitialControllerType` to `InitialControllerContainer`
    * `TypedStoryboardSegueInfo` to `TypedSegue`
    * `StoryboardSegueIdentifier` to `SegueIdentifier`

#### Configuring Continuous Integration system

When using a Swift Package Manager Plugin on a Continuous Integration (CI) server, you may see the following error:

> The following build commands failed:
>   Validate plug-in “RswiftGeneratePublicResources” in package “r.swift”

To allow the running of plugins, pass `-skipPackagePluginValidation` to xcbuildtool.  See also this discussion on the Swift forums: https://forums.swift.org/t/telling-xcode-14-beta-4-to-trust-build-tool-plugins-programatically/59305

For users of Fastlane, pass the extra argument like so:
```
build_app(
  ...
  xcargs: "-skipPackagePluginValidation"
  ...
)
```


## Upgrading to 6.0

- In the Build Phase, some changes are needed, [see an example screenshot](Images/BuildPhaseExample.png):
  * Uncheck "Based on dependency analysis" so that R.swift is run on each build
  * Remove `$TEMP_DIR/rswift-lastrun` from the "Input Files" of the Build Phase
  * Keep `$SRCROOT/[YOUR_PATH]/R.generated.swift` in the "Output Files" of the Build Phase unchanged

## Upgrading to 5.0

- Make sure you use Xcode 10 since we've adjusted to the SDK changes
- At the moment we are compatible with both Swift 4 and 4.2, this is more an accident then a feature, beware that we might drop Swift 4 support anytime.

If you are using the "New Build System":
- In the Build Phase you must perform some changes:
  * Change the script to give the explicit output file, for example: `"$PODS_ROOT/R.swift/rswift" generate "$SRCROOT/[YOUR_PATH]/R.generated.swift"`
  * Add `$TEMP_DIR/rswift-lastrun` to the "Input Files" of the Build Phase
  * Add `$SRCROOT/[YOUR_PATH]/R.generated.swift` to the "Output Files" of the Build Phase

If you are using the "Legacy Build System":
- Add the flag `--disable-input-output-files-validation` and *do not* add input/output files to the Build Phase.

## Upgrading to 4.0

- Make sure you use Swift 4 / Xcode 9 since we've adjusted to the syntax and SDK changes.
- Running R.swift now requires the `generate` command, check the error R.swift outputs for upgrade instructions
- Capitalization of methods and properties might have changed, in these cases the compiler should generate a fix-it for you.
- Support for CLR-files is deprecated, use the new named Color assets instead where possible.
 * CLR based colors are moved from `R.color.*` to `R.clr.*`
 * Support for CLR files will be removed in a later version
- At the moment we are compatible with both Swift 3.2 and Swift 4, this is more an accident then a feature, beware that we might drop Swift 3.2 support anytime.
- If you upgrade from Swift 2 we advise you to first migrate to Swift 3 / R.swift 3.0 and when that is done apply the migration to Swift 4 / R.swift 4.0

## Upgrading to 3.0

- Make sure you use Swift 3 / Xcode 8 since we've adjusted to the syntax changes.
- If you want to use Swift 2.3 / Xcode 8 use the latest R.swift 2 release.
- Some methods are renamed to match the new Swift 3 naming conventions, there are annotations available so the compiler can help you migrate.

## Upgrading to 2.0

- Make sure you use Swift 2.2 / Xcode 7.3 since we've adjusted to the syntax changes.

## Upgrading to 1.0

- iOS 7 support is dropped, use [R.swift 0.13](https://github.com/mac-cain13/R.swift/releases/tag/v0.13.0) if you still have to support it.
- Generated code now depends on the [R.swift.Library](https://github.com/mac-cain13/R.swift.Library), CocoaPods users don't need to do anything. Manual installation users need to include this library themselves, see the readme for instructions.
- In general; properties that created new stuff are now functions to represent better that they actually create a new instance.
 * `R.image.settingsIcon` changed to  `R.image.settingsIcon()`
 * `R.file.someJson` changed to `R.file.someJson()`
 * `R.storyboard.main.initialViewController` changed to `R.storyboard.main.initialViewController()`
 * `R.storyboard.main.someViewController` changed to `R.storyboard.main.someViewController()`
- In general; Where you needed to use `.initialize()` to get the instance, a shorter function is available now:
 * `R.storyboard.main.initialize()` changed to `R.storyboard.main()`
 * `R.nib.someView.initiate()` changed to `R.nib.someView()`
- Nib root view loading changed from `R.nib.someView.firstView(nil, options: nil)` to `R.nib.someView.firstView(owner: nil)`
- Typed segue syntax changed from `segue.typedInfoWithIdentifier(R.segue.someViewController.someSegue)` to `R.segue.someViewController.someSegue(segue: segue)`
- Runtime validation changed:
 * `R.validate()` now throws errors it encounters
 * `R.assertValid()` asserts on errors and only performs action in a debug/non-optimized build
 * For regular use cases using `R.assertValid()` is recommended

Commit message:

Update Migration Guide
Remove R.generated.swift on Xcode.

Because the following error.

Filename "R.generated.swift" used twice

Documentation/Migration.md, after:

# Migration

Pointers for migration between major versions.

## Upgrading to 7.0

[Demo video: Updating from R.swift 6 to Rswift 7](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=icihJ_hin3I)

#### R.string changes
 - Strings are always formatted using `String(format:)`, even strings without arguments, make sure to escape any percentage signs (`%`) with `%%`
 - Use a custom language: `R.string(preferredLanguages: ["fr"]).example.hello()`

#### Running the executable

If you're using Swift Package Manager:
 - Separate R.swift.Library is no longer needed, remove dependency on that package
 - `R.generated.swift` is no longer needed on Xcode, delete and move to trash
 - Add SPM dependency on `github.com/mac-cain13/R.swift.git` package
 - Add `RswiftLibrary` to your targets
 - Remove custom Run Script Build Phase that invokes `rswift` binary
 - Under "Run Build Tool Plug-ins" Build Phase, add `RswiftGenerateInternalResources` or `RswiftGeneratePublicResources` ([Screenshot](Images/RunBuildToolPluginsRswift.png))
 - Right-click on your project, and run `RswiftXcodeModifyPackages` to modify your Xcode project so that the build tool plug-in will actually run during builds (this seems to fix a bug in Xcode?) ([Screenshot](Images/RunXcodeModifyPackages.png))

If you're using Mint or manual call `rswift` executable:
 - Separate R.swift.Library is no longer needed, remove dependency on that package
 - Add SPM dependency on `github.com/mac-cain13/R.swift.git` package
 - Add `RswiftLibrary` to your targets

Changes to the commandline tool `rswift` (not relevant when using SPM):
 - Argument `accessLevel` renamed to `access-level`
 - Argument `generateUITestFile` removed, if you need a separate file with just ids, call rswift a second time with `--generators id`
 - Argument `hostingBundle` removed, bundle can be specified in code: `_R(bundle: someBundle)`
 - Arguments removed: `bundleIdentifier`, `productModuleName`, `infoPlistFile`, `codeSignEntitlements`, `builtProductsDir`, `developerDir`, `platformDir`, `sdkRoot`, `sourceRoot`. Use environment variables instead.

#### Library changes

Internal changes in the Rswift support library:
 - Support for `R.nib.XXX.secondView` to `.twentiethView` has been removed, only `.firstView` remains
 - Renamed internal module, update `import Rswift` to `import RswiftResources`
 - Removed protocols: `ColorResourceType`, `FileResourceType`, `FontResourceType`, `IdentifierType`, `ImageResourceType`, `StoryboardViewControllerResourceType`, `StringResourceType`, `Validatable`
 - Added `StringResource1` up to `StringResource9`, for strings with parameters
 - Renamed types:
    * `ReuseIdentifierType` to `ReuseIdentifierContainer`
    * `NibResourceType` to `NibReferenceContainer`
    * `StoryboardResourceType` to `StoryboardReference`
    * `StoryboardResourceWithInitialControllerType` to `InitialControllerContainer`
    * `TypedStoryboardSegueInfo` to `TypedSegue`
    * `StoryboardSegueIdentifier` to `SegueIdentifier`

#### Configuring Continuous Integration system

When using a Swift Package Manager Plugin on a Continuous Integration (CI) server, you may see the following error:

> The following build commands failed:
>   Validate plug-in “RswiftGeneratePublicResources” in package “r.swift”

To allow the running of plugins, pass `-skipPackagePluginValidation` to xcbuildtool.  See also this discussion on the Swift forums: https://forums.swift.org/t/telling-xcode-14-beta-4-to-trust-build-tool-plugins-programatically/59305

For users of Fastlane, pass the extra argument like so:
```
build_app(
  ...
  xcargs: "-skipPackagePluginValidation"
  ...
)
```


## Upgrading to 6.0

- In the Build Phase, some changes are needed, [see an example screenshot](Images/BuildPhaseExample.png):
  * Uncheck "Based on dependency analysis" so that R.swift is run on each build
  * Remove `$TEMP_DIR/rswift-lastrun` from the "Input Files" of the Build Phase
  * Keep `$SRCROOT/[YOUR_PATH]/R.generated.swift` in the "Output Files" of the Build Phase unchanged

## Upgrading to 5.0

- Make sure you use Xcode 10 since we've adjusted to the SDK changes
- At the moment we are compatible with both Swift 4 and 4.2, this is more an accident then a feature, beware that we might drop Swift 4 support anytime.

If you are using the "New Build System":
- In the Build Phase you must perform some changes:
  * Change the script to give the explicit output file, for example: `"$PODS_ROOT/R.swift/rswift" generate "$SRCROOT/[YOUR_PATH]/R.generated.swift"`
  * Add `$TEMP_DIR/rswift-lastrun` to the "Input Files" of the Build Phase
  * Add `$SRCROOT/[YOUR_PATH]/R.generated.swift` to the "Output Files" of the Build Phase

If you are using the "Legacy Build System":
- Add the flag `--disable-input-output-files-validation` and *do not* add input/output files to the Build Phase.

## Upgrading to 4.0

- Make sure you use Swift 4 / Xcode 9 since we've adjusted to the syntax and SDK changes.
- Running R.swift now requires the `generate` command, check the error R.swift outputs for upgrade instructions
- Capitalization of methods and properties might have changed, in these cases the compiler should generate a fix-it for you.
- Support for CLR-files is deprecated, use the new named Color assets instead where possible.
 * CLR based colors are moved from `R.color.*` to `R.clr.*`
 * Support for CLR files will be removed in a later version
- At the moment we are compatible with both Swift 3.2 and Swift 4, this is more an accident then a feature, beware that we might drop Swift 3.2 support anytime.
- If you upgrade from Swift 2 we advise you to first migrate to Swift 3 / R.swift 3.0 and when that is done apply the migration to Swift 4 / R.swift 4.0

## Upgrading to 3.0

- Make sure you use Swift 3 / Xcode 8 since we've adjusted to the syntax changes.
- If you want to use Swift 2.3 / Xcode 8 use the latest R.swift 2 release.
- Some methods are renamed to match the new Swift 3 naming conventions, there are annotations available so the compiler can help you migrate.

## Upgrading to 2.0

- Make sure you use Swift 2.2 / Xcode 7.3 since we've adjusted to the syntax changes.

## Upgrading to 1.0

- iOS 7 support is dropped, use [R.swift 0.13](https://github.com/mac-cain13/R.swift/releases/tag/v0.13.0) if you still have to support it.
- Generated code now depends on the [R.swift.Library](https://github.com/mac-cain13/R.swift.Library), CocoaPods users don't need to do anything. Manual installation users need to include this library themselves, see the readme for instructions.
- In general; properties that created new stuff are now functions to represent better that they actually create a new instance.
 * `R.image.settingsIcon` changed to  `R.image.settingsIcon()`
 * `R.file.someJson` changed to `R.file.someJson()`
 * `R.storyboard.main.initialViewController` changed to `R.storyboard.main.initialViewController()`
 * `R.storyboard.main.someViewController` changed to `R.storyboard.main.someViewController()`
- In general; Where you needed to use `.initialize()` to get the instance, a shorter function is available now:
 * `R.storyboard.main.initialize()` changed to `R.storyboard.main()`
 * `R.nib.someView.initiate()` changed to `R.nib.someView()`
- Nib root view loading changed from `R.nib.someView.firstView(nil, options: nil)` to `R.nib.someView.firstView(owner: nil)`
- Typed segue syntax changed from `segue.typedInfoWithIdentifier(R.segue.someViewController.someSegue)` to `R.segue.someViewController.someSegue(segue: segue)`
- Runtime validation changed:
 * `R.validate()` now throws errors it encounters
 * `R.assertValid()` asserts on errors and only performs action in a debug/non-optimized build
 * For regular use cases using `R.assertValid()` is recommended
